So let's recap here what we just saw for capacitors and series.
The first thing is our capacitor equation.
It applies to each one of those capacitors which means you're going to write that that charge q one
is equal to see one multiplied by the voltage across that one capacitor we call that V1.
We go ahead and show what V1 looks like.
The voltage across here.
Right.
And this is the voltage across this one.
And this is the voltage across this one V3.
So you're going to write this for each one of those capacitors right C2 V2 Q Three.
Oy.
Try that again.
Come on.
Q three equals to see three v three very important.
Now what do we say about the charge.
The charge is the same for all three capacitors.
OK so that means each one of these has to be simply equal to Q some value.
You have to have that the charge is the same.
So again we have to have that.
I mean make a bullet point here.
Same charge on each
capacitor
again this applies only to capacitors in series with each other.
And the other important equation that you need to solve any of these problems over here is that the
voltage if I look at the voltage across each one if I is some those values v 1 plus v 2 plus v 3 again
adding the voltages across it has to be the same as going across the other side has to be equal to the
voltage across the battery.
Super important.
All right.
So let me clean up the first equations I don't need a subscript for the charges because they're all
the same and let me move this over and the other thing that you can do with these types of circuits
right here you do one other thing.
All right that's the charge relationship I can represent it using an effective an equivalent capacitance.
All right I could simplify the circuit and write it like this.
I have the same voltage V and I'm able to write it in terms of just one equivalent capacitance.
It's not the same value as C one C two or C three but it's a combination of all three and this is what
you call an equivalent capacitance.
I'll show you a trick now for calculating the equivalent capacitance.
It's very very straightforward.
It's easier to calculate one divided by C equivalent and at the end what you have to do is take the
reciprocal of that.
All right.
Because the one over the equivalent capacitance is one divided by C one plus one divided by C two plus
one divided by C three.
If you have more you just keep adding them like that one divided by okay.
And after if I want to get the value for the equivalent capacitance you have to take the one divided
by the number that you're going to get over here for example in this bracket.
Can't forget that last step otherwise you get the wrong answer you don't have the right units.
OK.
So it's very easy to set up an equivalent circuit if you have capacitors in series with each other.
Once you have this remember that the charge that you have on this equivalent capacitance is going to
be the same charge Q that you had everywhere else.
So you're still going to have plus q on this plate and negative Q on that plate so the way that the
capacitor equation looks like for this simplified Circuit Assembly q equals to the equivalent capacitance
multiplied by the voltage.
Always the same equation that applies if you have a simple circuit like this.
All right.
So that is a recap of what's going on for capacitors in series.
Same charge the sum of the voltages has to be equal to the voltage across all three which is the same
voltage as the battery in this case.
And you could simplify using an equivalent capacitance and the formula for the equivalent capacitance
is the one provided here in purple.
All right.